[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
Kimo Kepano is back with us,
a Hawaiian high seer, also
known as the light seer.
Now, he works with the
visualization of the quantum
field and frequency.
He tunes into timelines,
helps to heal the body,
and activates your innate
frequency intuitions
through higher education.
Kimo, welcome back.
>>KIMO KEPANO: Mahalo, George.
Thank you for having
me back again.
>>NOORY: What exactly
is a Hawaiian seer?
>>KEPANO: What is that?
If we look at the
old ancient belief
systems from our prophets--
Hawaiians would
call that makaula--
all of our chiefs used
to have a seer that
was connected to
them to really help
them see in foresight plans,
health, and things like that.
And as a kid, I thought
I was just a clairvoyant.
But I realized now,
as I was growing up
and my abilities
are really igniting,
that my ability to see in the
quantum field and my ability
to see spirit energy, my
ability to see frequency,
and my ability to see
within the human biofield
was really a culmination
of multiple things, which
would then equate to help
me understand how am I
a high seer, the ability to see
everything all at the same time.
Not at the same
time, really trying
to decide, what
kind of sight do I
want to be working with when
I'm working with a client?
So if I'm doing healing
stuff, I put on that filter.
If I'm doing spirit stuff,
then I put on that filter.
If I'm doing work
with land energy,
then I'll put on that filter.
So I'm really trying to take all
the different things that I can
see and compartmentalize it.
>>NOORY: Were you
born with a gift?
Or did you develop the gift?
>>KEPANO: Well, it's
a family joke, George.
So my brother has always
joked that I was dropped
on my head, which I was.
I was dropped on my head--
>>NOORY: Ouch.
>>KEPANO: When I
was two weeks old,
I was dropped on my head
in the Honolulu airport.
And it fractured my skull
and actually fractured
the very back of my occipital.
>>NOORY: You're lucky you
didn't have any brain damage.
>>KEPANO: Well, that's
the joke, right?
So when I was dropped on
my head at two weeks old,
that actually pushed into
my primary visual center
and then bruised a little
bit of my visual association
center, which is where people
start to be able to identify
an apple is an apple.
A ball is a ball.
But for me now, when I
take a look at the world,
instead of that being bruised,
it's the ability to see
but what is outside of
that energetic zone.
So the joke is I was
dropped on my head,
but maybe it's my origin story.
Maybe it's my Peter Parker
Spider Man origin story.
>>NOORY: Now, what is
clairvoyance to you?
>>KEPANO: Clairvoyance
for me-- and the way
that I educate this is a little
bit different or a lot different
than the way that
we tend to teach it.
Clairvoyancy, many
people believe,
is a gift and the
ability to see spirit.
I don't talk about it
that way because I believe
that everyone has the ability.
Clairvoyancy is the ability to
see in foresight and trajectory,
to be able to really
stimulate your mind's eye,
to be able to create here,
to be able to see out there.
And all of us have access
to that, not just in spirit.
>>NOORY: Is it a
type of intuition?
>>KEPANO: Well, it is
a type of intuition.
We have so many different types
of intuitions that are sensory,
but we also have intuitions
that are frequency based.
And technically, clairvoyancy
can be frequency based.
And we all have access to that.
>>NOORY: Now, what do you
mean by frequency based?
>>KEPANO: When I
look at how someone
might be intuitive-- let's
just say that we're working
with someone who views
themselves as very
claircognizant, the
ability to know.
Well, cognition
looks like something
in the energetic fields.
It actually visually looks like
something around the human body.
And clairvoyancy does that.
Clairsentience does that.
They all have their
own visualizations.
And again, that's how I look
at it with the quantum field.
So if I can pinpoint
what kind of frequency
every single person
innately works
with, it helps me identify,
well, let's exercise this more.
Let's bring this
one back to life.
Let's fertilize this
one to really help
you identify what
is unique to the way
that you work with energy.
And everyone does it regardless
if we know it or not.
>>NOORY: Kimo, if you're
good with clairvoyance,
are you necessarily good
with claircognizance
or clairaudience?
>>KEPANO: Yeah.
So the awesome thing
about frequency
is they love to work together.
So what happens
with clairvoyance,
it'll work in tandem
with my ability to know.
I see it.
I know it.
Or clairaudient
abilities-- I hear it.
I know it.
Sometimes for children,
it goes, I see it.
I hear it, or I see it.
I feel it.
And all of them work
in tandem, and learning
how to work with
them specifically
is really, really helpful.
>>NOORY: Now, how can
you, with your abilities,
see if somebody is clairvoyant?
KEPANO: When I look at
the actual frequency
of clairvoyance, I'm
just going to describe
what it looks like for me.
When I see another clairvoyant
individual, a child
or an adolescent or
an adult, it looks
like these really
interesting rings
that kind of move around this
whole entire part of the body.
Sometimes it looks
like a little bit
of a wave that moves from
the very top of the crown
into the pineal,
moves out this way.
And there's very
specific colors that
come in when I take a
look at it from there.
So it helps me identify, ah, I'm
working with the clairvoyant,
or maybe I'm working
with a clairaudient.
>>NOORY: Anybody ever say you
look like the late comedian
Gilbert Gottfried?
[LAUGHS]
>>KEPANO: (MIMICKING GILBERT
GOTTFRIED) If I talk like this.
[LAUGHS]
I'm going to take
that as a compliment.
I used to love Gilbert.
>>NOORY: You have similarities.
[LAUGHS]
>>KEPANO: That's a compliment.
So now I'm going to have to
really bring my consciousness
back to awareness
because I'm going to want
to laugh just like him now.
>>NOORY: How do your
clients come to you?
How do they find you?
>>KEPANO: Well, I believe
that my clients find me
because they are in alignment to
looking for that kind of work.
I have clients who are
themselves practitioners.
I have clients who
are very, very sick.
I have clients that
have been diagnosed
with strange, anomalous
things that the doctor doesn't
know how to make sense of.
I have clients who are
children and clients who
are grandparents.
There's a huge diaspora
of how my clients find me.
>>NOORY: How does
clairvoyance tie into healing?
>>KEPANO: For me,
George, when I'm
looking at someone
who's maybe diagnosed
with some kind of
anomalous malady,
if I look at the frequencies
that move within the body,
it'll help me identify, well,
where is that moving toward?
Sometimes it moves within
the enteric nervous system.
Or maybe I can see
something around the knee
or maybe the cells that
are not moving as well
and the very bottom of the
left arch of your foot.
So being able to tune in to
how frequency shifts helps
me identify, well, what is going
on in that part of the body?
>>NOORY: Do you see
trauma and things
like that within the body?
>>KEPANO: Yeah, so trauma is
a really interesting thing.
We have our
environmental traumas.
An air conditioner
fell on my head.
We have our
environmental traumas,
but we also have our
emotional traumas.
And emotional trauma
does hold a residual zone
inside of the body.
>>NOORY: That could be worse
than a physical trauma.
>>KEPANO: I believe that it's
actually much worse than that,
because when we take a look
at the parallel of really
massive things like cancer
or some kind of major bone
degeneration or
something like that,
it will be an equilibrium
to some kind of trauma
within the emotional body.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
We have a clip of you
describing how you see
emotional trauma in the body.
Let's take a look.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- If we're having a
conversation and if I'm
looking at your body and
the colors within the body,
and you say something to me
that is based on old trauma,
a different part of your body
is going to literally flare up.
And it'll show me
a different color.
And when I say,
are you interested
in me going a little bit further
and doing some color work?
And if you say yes, I will say
your left hip just flared up.
And you'll say, well,
what do you mean?
And I say, technically,
your left hip is flared up.
It's in this position.
It's connecting
to this vertebrae.
And that's when the
person will say,
whoa, OK, yeah, that is
actually very, very true for me.
But how did you see it?
And my response is, I don't
look for that in the body.
What I'm looking for is where
emotional energy is stagnant.
Where emotional energy
is stagnant will also
ruminate in different parts of
the body, which then tell me
something is going on in
that part of the body, which
is why I say what I say.
I said what I said.
So because this is
my identification
of how I do medical
work through color work,
we're going to learn
some of my own process.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Kimo, you have a gift.
>>KEPANO: Well, I
have an ability.
I think that we
all have abilities.
And I really strive
to not call it
a gift because I
don't want anyone
to feel like I am more unique or
more special than anyone else.
Yes, I know that I
can see what I see,
and I know that I'm
helpful to the collective
and helpful to clients.
But all of us have
access to that.
There's no
gatekeeping with that.
>>NOORY: What about anxiety.
Is there any tie-in there?
>>KEPANO: There is.
So when we take a look at
how clairvoyancy manifests
very naturally, which is my
ability to see myself accomplish
something easily
in my mind's eye,
anxiety manifests as the lack
of seeing myself accomplish it
clearly.
I have anxiety in traffic.
My anxiety is I don't
see myself getting
to my destination in time.
I don't see myself
driving clearly.
So it does affect the way
that we experience anxiety.
>>NOORY: Do you find that some
people who have clairvoyance
try to hide it?
>>KEPANO: Yeah, I do.
Well, sometimes it's
conscious hiding,
and sometimes it's
unconscious hiding.
There will be many
individuals who
will catch visual
glimpses of things
in the corner of
their eye, maybe
a little bit of a
movement of something,
maybe something a little
bit of a shadow moved
into the corner of their eye.
And they just want to
shut all that down.
They want to put their
head underneath the covers.
And what ends up happening
then is the body then
starts to experience fear.
And then once you put
the fear filter on,
it's very hard to
see anything clearly.
>>NOORY: Do we pass it
down to our children?
>>KEPANO: I have seen
that clairvoyancy-- well,
all of our abilities.
Our abilities can be
passed down generationally.
However, there are
certain individuals
who it is just innate
to who they are.
It is just innate
to their system,
innate to their frequency.
But there's lots of-- because
work with a lot of children.
There will be many children
who will reflect something
that the parent did, but the
parent wasn't activating it.
It was natural to the parent.
Maybe they turned it
off, but then the child
is being then given the ability.
Or maybe even the grandparent,
skipped the parent,
went right to the grandchild.
>>NOORY: So it is genetic.
>>KEPANO: It can be genetic.
I don't want to say
that it's always genetic
because I don't want us
to ever lean into the fact
that, well, maybe I can't do it
then because we can access it.
But there are many, many
individuals where it does move
through the generational lines.
>>NOORY: Tell me about empathy.
>>KEPANO: Empathy-- if you look
at empathy on a frequency level,
empathy is this
really interesting,
full-bodied vibration.
And you would think that empathy
kind of ruminates from the mind,
in my conscious ability to
feel someone else's feelings.
And it does happen there
with your mirrored neurons.
But empathy actually exudes
from the heart center.
And when I'm taking
a look at that,
you can tell if someone is
more of an emotional empath
or a physical empath
or a delayed empath--
>>NOORY: Or a neurotic mess.
>>KEPANO: Or a mess.
Or they're doing too much
absorption of empathy,
taking on too many different
emotions from the people
in their room, from their
family, from their children,
from their boss.
And that can affect that
energetic frequency.
>>NOORY: We have a clip of
you talking about empathy.
Let's take a look at that.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Let's talk about what the
visual vibration of empathy
looks like.
The visual vibration
of empathy is actually
a full-bodied vibration.
Unlike cognizance,
which goes this way,
and aliens, which goes
this way, and avoidance
that goes this way, empathy
is a full-body vibration.
It's actually
quite oval looking.
It goes around the
whole entire body,
from the very base
of my root system,
all the way down to
my feet, all the way
to the very top of my crown,
around the whole entire body.
The color of this vibration,
you would probably
think that it's like
rainbow or bright.
Empathy vibration doesn't
look like that for me.
Empathy vibration is actually
a very misty gray color,
very, very gray, almost as if
it's like an in-between color.
And then it takes on the
color of the individuals that
are around you or the
color of the emotions
that are going around.
So it has a base color.
When I'm taking a
look at someone,
I'll take a look at what
kind of an empath are you.
How do I know what
kind of an empath
you are before you
say a word to me?
I'll look at what that
full-body vibration does.
And I'll look at how it
moves, how it pulses.
If there's little
dents in the vibration,
if it's expanding more
one side, a lot of people
will thin it out
to the very front
and then let it grow big
in the very, very back.
There's different forms
and variations on that.
And we are going to go
into an explanation of what
all those variations are.
The explanation of this,
I don't have any time
to go through when
I do social media.
So you're getting a
further explanation
of what those different
things are, and I
hope that you'll identify,
hmm, I do that one a lot.
Or I've done that one
a lot, or I can see
myself having done that one.
I try not to do that one.
That one sounds just like me.
I want you to utilize
this terminology
so you can begin to identify
in your consciousness
how to create a
pivot to your change,
a pivot to your paradigm, OK?
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: How would you
categorize clairvoyance
compared to the supernatural?
>>KEPANO: Well, in
essence, clairvoyancy
is very supernatural.
But I like to change that word
a little bit because we think
of supernatural as my
ability to levitate
things, my ability to
move things kinetically,
which can actually
very, very much happen.
>>NOORY: To call up spirits.
>>KEPANO: Yeah, exactly.
But when we take a look at how
clairvoyancy is innate to all
of us, those two things is a--
there's a commonality there
because clairvoyancy, it
is an expanded ability when
you're really leaning into it.
So in essence, it is a
supernatural thing for you.
>>NOORY: Is it paranormal?
>>KEPANO: Well, it could be.
So for example, you could
see paranormal activity.
You could see paranormal
motion of things going on.
When I do paranormal
work and they
go in with all of their gadgets
that they're working with,
I don't like to go
in with anything.
I like to go in and
just see what I can see
in terms of a frequency shift.
And those two things
actually have commonality.
When a temperature
drops, temperature drop
is a very visual thing.
The actual viscosity of
the frequency changes
around furniture--
>>NOORY: Is there a
downside to clairvoyance?
I mean, can it be demonic?
>>KEPANO: Well,
there is a downside.
And the downside is what
happens when we become fearful.
And "demon" is such an
interesting word because demon
is one of those things--
I get told this a lot.
Well, what you see is very, very
demonic and be very careful.
And I understand that
because the visualization
of how things appear,
whether that is trauma based
or my emotions are dropped
as a visualization.
And sometimes it is
misinterpreted as what
would be called demonic.
The ability to see
spirit, the ability
to see in foresight, the ability
to see within the human biofield
could be seen as demonic if we
don't understand that we all
have access to this.
>>NOORY: You had mentioned
earlier that some clairvoyant
experts see strange shadows
and things whooshing by.
>>KEPANO: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Could they
be the shadow person?
>>KEPANO: Well, when it
comes to shadow people,
here's how I educate about that.
When you're looking at what
we view as shadow-like,
our human brains
are trying so hard
to make sense of all the
things around us, George.
So I might see a frequency of
someone's dropped emotions.
Let's just say that Kimo
had a really bad day.
And I was really
upset and depressed.
And if I brought that
energy into the space,
when I leave this
chair, a clairvoyant
might still sense
some of my energy
that is still left
in that space.
And the color of that can
feel very shadow-like.
So with academia, we take a look
at how clairvoyant individuals
can actually sense much
more than they realize.
But we have to work
with our brains.
We have to work with our mind,
to teach our mind to say,
not everything that I see is
going to be harmful or scary.
I'm just trying to make
sense of what I can see.
>>NOORY: Where does
exorcisms fit in?
>>KEPANO: So exorcisms
is a belief system
that what is going
on within my body,
whether I'm going through
some kind of trauma.
What's going on
within my body needs
to be released from the body.
And I have a slight
agreement with that.
My problem with the
idea of exorcism
is that when you're
looking at someone
who has some kind
of manic episode
or psychosis or schizophrenia
or personality disorder,
it, on a frequency level,
looks like something.
And when that person
is experiencing that,
if the people around
them don't know
how to talk with that
person through psychosis,
they're going to
deem it demonic,
meaning some kind of possession.
So then we call it an
exorcist to remediate that
without realizing that that
person is in need of assistance
in some other way.
And this is actually where
we really push into dogma.
>>NOORY: The Pope had an
exorcist called Father Gabriele
Amorth, who has died.
But he has done
thousands of exorcisms.
They did a movie about him,
starring Russell Crowe.
I called Russell
weeks ago because I
was talking about Father Amorth
on my program and said, Russell,
I want you to pop
on just for a minute
to talk about what it was like
for you to play that part.
Did anything supernatural
happened to you?
He said, I'm in Budapest.
It's 3:00 in the morning.
I got to go to bed.
Click.
>>KEPANO: Well, in that,
we have our experiences,
and that we notate
our experiences.
And then those
experiences become
a little bit
hyperbolized in our mind
when we're talking about it.
And we do a really
good job in Hollywood
to really make things feel
larger than they actually are.
And when it comes to exorcisms,
what we're really trying to do
is someone's coming in to
help move energy out of you.
And that individual,
me as a person,
might have a strong
belief system in that.
And if my belief
system connects to what
I believe they can do for me,
then my body will release.
But really, there is trauma
going on inside of that body.
>>NOORY: Is that evil energy?
>>KEPANO: Well, evil
is very subjective.
And the way that we teach
that is energy is just energy.
Energy does pool and
move towards the way
that I believe, the
way that I behave,
because our goal is to be
as neutral as possible.
So that way, we can just
look at frequency and energy
for what it is.
So that way, I don't judge
it to be some kind of demon
or judge it to be
some kind of angel.
It is just energy in motion.
>>NOORY: We have seen
clips, video clips
of strange anomalies,
what people would call
ghosts or spirits whisking by.
How does that happen?
>>KEPANO: When you
look at how frequency
moves within the electromagnetic
field or within the biofield,
it can leave a residual.
And our electronics are
great at picking up on that
because they work
with electric energy.
And sometimes it will
just leave an impression.
And that impression may
not be the actual spirit.
It might be an echo of that
conscious energy or a residual.
But here's the kicker, George.
Not only can you sense
that from your electronics
that might pick up on some
kind of echo of spirit energy,
but we, as the living,
leave those kinds
of energetics in a space.
This is one of the reasons
why people walk into a room
and say, hmm, I don't know.
I feel like it doesn't feel so
good in this space right now,
or it feels great in
this space because we
leave energy in the space.
And sometimes it's
picked up on by a camera.
>>NOORY: Kimo, what
does it mean when
a clairvoyant has dreams of
destruction and death and evil?
What does that mean?
>>KEPANO: Well,
it's very scary when
a clairvoyant might see that.
And sometimes it just
feels like a nightmare.
Sometimes it feels like
a really bad dream.
But there are
certain clairvoyants
who are more predominant
when they sleep.
We can call them
wondernauts or oneironauts.
In Hawaiian, we
call that Moe'uhane,
which translates
into my soul sleeps,
but it sees at the same time.
And some clairvoyants, when
they see in the dream world,
usually, it is a sign of
fear in my everyday life.
I don't want to see
everything when I'm awake.
So when I go to
sleep, my mind says,
great, he's finally asleep.
Now, we're going
to allow him to see
in foresight, to see in
precognition in terms
of what might be coming up.
And our brain is still
trying to make sense of that
in our subconscious mind.
So it might deem it as scary.
>>NOORY: Is it a burnout for
a clairvoyant dream like that?
>>KEPANO: It can be.
But I utilize that
language of burnout
for all of our abilities.
So I think about
it like a stereo.
If I were to turn up my
grand master and my treble
and my bass all at
the same time, George,
everything would distort.
So we strive to do
is to really train
my clairvoyancy and
my clairaudience
and my clairsentience.
That way, I can
turn the levels down
when I need to so they
don't go through burnout.
They don't go
through distortion.
>>NOORY: Tell me
about precognition,
how that ties into this.
>>KEPANO: Yeah.
So in our precognition,
there's lots of individuals who
are doing it without realizing.
It may be in the dream world
or in the astral world.
A lot of individuals
would be remote viewers,
but the precognition is
to see slightly ahead.
But I like to normalize this.
So we think about it like this.
If I were a clothing designer,
I see it in my mind's eye.
I make it happen.
I'm cooking a pie.
I see the pie in my mind's
eye, and I make it happen.
Or a football coach--
I see the play.
I make it happen.
When it comes to precognition
and clairvoyancy,
again, all of us have access.
All of us do.
>>NOORY: What is retrocognition?
>>KEPANO: Now, this is
where it gets really fun.
When we look at things
retrocognitively,
instead of going into our slight
future, we go into our past
a little bit.
A lot of therapists are
quite good with this.
You're talking
about an event that
happened to you in childhood.
And when you can truly go back
and visualize what was needed
and what was happening
in that moment,
you in the present
state, me right now,
I will feel a shift because
I retrocognitively went back
in time to take a look
at dealing with whatever
that demon or that trauma was.
And I feel the difference now.
>>NOORY: Do we need
to remember events
that happened in
our lives in order
to have any clairvoyancy to it?
>>KEPANO: Well, not
necessarily, George.
I think that for a
lot of individuals,
going back into memory
recall is quite easy.
For some individuals, memory
recall is not easy for them.
So we really strive to say, but
what can we do now with this?
How can we give you
tools and exercises
to fertilize that right now?
It is helpful to be able
to have memory recall,
but there are some people who
don't tune into that easily.
But memory recall
will help us identify
where, what kind of trauma is
going on inside of the body that
might be affecting my body.
So for example, George,
if I'm looking at a client
and I'm seeing different things
happening in the body, sometimes
the color of what's going on
in your shoulder, for example,
will give me an imprint
of what happened,
what were the circumstances.
And when we talk about
it, that client might say,
wow, I haven't thought about
that since I was 15 years old.
But when you
retrocognitively go back
and work on that, if they
can have some kind of,
oh, I see what was
needed, what I actually
was trying to maybe work
through in that moment,
if I feel the
difference now, what
that tells us is that
retrocognitively, it worked.
And that's how we
work through trauma.
And then that
client usually will
feel a little bit of a new sense
of motion in that shoulder.
>>NOORY: What does
imminent probability mean?
>>KEPANO: Imminent
probabilities is the language
that I give timelines.
When I was a kid, I would
see all these futures,
all these timelines.
But what I learned
as I was growing up
is that every timeline is
just an imminent probability.
And actually, George,
on a frequency level,
timelines look like
densities, so a large density
of this happening and then a
small density of something else
happening.
I pay very close
attention to how large
the density of that
probability is,
which means that we're
putting in a lot of thought
into this timeline right now.
And if we don't
want it to manifest,
we've got to change the density.
We've got to change
the thought process.
If we see a small density
of a probability coming in
and we want more of it, we've
got to put more thought into it.
So it becomes more of an
existence of some kind of future
that you want to have, some
kind of outcome that you want.
>>NOORY: Kimo, I've always been
a believer of what goes around
comes around, karma.
What do you think of that?
>>KEPANO: Well, we translate
karma as an action plan.
For me, karma is a
visual experience
in connection to
lessons that you're
going through in this life.
And it can also connect to maybe
contracts, your soul contract.
But if we take a look at
karma, what goes around
comes around or the golden rule,
if I'm doing something nefarious
in this life, will it
happen to me again?
Well, we take a
look at what you're
doing in this life as a lesson.
The lesson has a beginning,
and it has an end.
And if we can learn
to identify, well,
what is the end of
this current lesson?
It does not actually affect the
rest of our karmic contracts
in terms of needing to come
back and repeat the lesson.
Who wants to repeat
the 12th grade?
No one wants to
repeat any lessons,
so we strive to identify, how
can I look at these lessons now?
>>NOORY: In clairvoyancy, can
we change the future or not?
>>KEPANO: Well, yes,
always, always, always.
I'll give you an
example, George.
There'll be so many times
when I'm looking at a client
where they say, the doctor has
given me three more months,
three more months.
And that might look like
a visual density of this
is predominantly
going to happen.
But if that person
says, but I don't
want to leave this
world in three months,
I want to stay, I'm not done
yet, what we do is we say, well,
let's work on changing what we
can see then, work on changing
how I can see
myself in foresight,
sustaining a life
of good health,
to be here for 10 more
years, 20 more years.
We have to put more weight
into a timeline that gives us
the trajectory of being able
to be more foundational, more
present, more here.
And the body will
receive the information.
And its cellular DNA, will
receive the information
differently.
>>NOORY: I have a little
doctor's story for you.
Doctor went up to
his patient and said,
I've really got some
bad news for you.
And he said, what, Doc?
What?
He said, you've only
got three months.
He said, what do you mean?
He said, that's all you've
got left, three months.
He said, Doc, I can't pay my
bill to you in three months.
He said, give you
another six months.
[LAUGHS]
Is it like that?
>>KEPANO: It is like that,
George, which is desire.
All of our contracts are about
our acceptance of the contract.
And if we accept
that my contract is
going to be eliminated
within three months
or if we accept that my
contract can be ameliorated
to be changed, to be more
beautiful with an extension
of 10 years, that is my choice.
And it is hard because
sometimes we're
given these really
large prognosis.
And we have to make
very strong choices
to change what I
can see in foresight
of what that prognosis is.
>>NOORY: A lot of
psychics will try
to make predictions of
the world, the future.
Is that the right thing to do?
Is that ethical?
>>KEPANO: For me, it depends.
Even from Nostradamus's time,
if we take a look at things that
are of assistance with our
collective, with our community,
with the world, I
would say, well,
this is actually a good thing.
If something can
be of assistance,
it would be a good thing.
However, I am not an intuitive.
I am not a seer.
I am not a makaula
who says the biggest,
baddest thing is going to happen
in two weeks and two years.
And the reason why
I don't do that
is that we have group resonance.
The larger the
amount of individuals
who put time and effort
and thought into those
probabilities
happening, we actually
move ourselves closer to that.
And with my ability,
I don't want
to use my ability
for those reasons.
So I actually stay away
from any kind of timeline
that is about something
shifting in some kind
of scary, dense way.
I work really, really hard to
not do that with my abilities.
>>NOORY: Do you continue to
enhance your clairvoyancy?
>>KEPANO: Yeah, I think that
there should be no end in sight.
I really strive to teach
other individuals--
>>NOORY: You get better?
>>KEPANO: Yeah, you get better.
There is no such
thing as mastery.
I actually really
push against healers
who call themselves a
master because there
should be no summit of knowledge
when it comes to energy work.
I know that I can do some really
profound things with clients,
but I still would not consider
myself ever to be a master.
I don't ever want to be one.
I want to be a student to the
work, to change what I know.
There is no ending
in sight to this.
It is just development.
>>NOORY: Can spirit
change its form?
>>KEPANO: Spirit changes
its form all the time.
Spirit works
multidimensionally, just how
we work multidimensionally.
But spirit works
multidimensionally.
And when it changes its form,
it's really helpful for us
to know.
This is why-- it's like the
beginning of a psychic joke.
Two psychics walk into a bar.
One sees demon.
One sees the communication
of your grandmother.
Who's right?
Well, they're both right,
because what ends up happening
is every individual will
see things in the way
that their mind
already sees the world
so that spirit might
manifest as something scary,
or it might manifest as
some kind of communication
that is in beauty.
It just depends on the psychic.
>>NOORY: That's a good point.
>>KEPANO: And a good joke.
>>NOORY: Can you train
yourself to become better
as a clairvoyant?
>>KEPANO: Absolutely.
We can train ourselves, George,
to do any of our abilities
more profoundly.
When I take a look
at a client, if I'm
looking at all the different
senses and different ways
that they are intuitive, it
looks like a graph to me.
It looks like, here's
what I do dormantly.
Here's what I do that's rising.
Here's what I do
that's in dominance.
And I have learned
that everything
that is a dormant
frequency can be
brought into a rising position.
Everything that is
rising can be brought
into a dominant position.
It just takes time and
process and consistency.
>>NOORY: What if the
clairvoyant is too emotional?
Does that affect things?
>>KEPANO: It does.
And this is where
it gets tricky.
In essence, and in theory, when
we are working with clients,
as a practitioner, we want to
remain as neutral as possible.
When I was a child, because I
am a very, very large empath,
as a child, it was
challenging for me
to do spirit work
because I was so engaged
with the emotions of the
client, which, in essence,
I made it about me
without realizing it.
And we want to be as
neutral as possible
to hold space for energy, to
hold space for that client.
So again, energy coming forward
is neither good nor bad.
It is just communication.
>>NOORY: When you go to bed
at night, are you wound up?
What happens?
>>KEPANO: I have to work
really hard, George,
to take my abilities and then
to turn them down consciously.
>>NOORY: Can you do that?
>>KEPANO: You can.
And this is actually
what I teach.
And there's a reason
why we do this.
We want to train
our abilities to be
able to disengage on command.
What you're seeing of me right
now is my avatar of the lights
here.
But when I go home, I
turn that bad boy down
because I don't want to go to
bed seeing spirit and seeing
frequency, which happened
to me my entire life.
I was a worse person to have
a sleepover with because I'm
always being talked to and
told certain kinds of things.
And your friend is sleeping in
the sleeping bag next to you,
but his mom is going
through something.
Talk to my mom about something.
And I have to really learn
how to disengage from that.
So that's actually what I teach.
We should be able to say, here
is the avatar of who I am.
And when I go home
and I rest, then I
get to be this
new version of me.
It's like you as George
as what you're doing now.
I'm sure that when you
go home, it probably
feels good to take off the
suit and relax a little bit.
>>NOORY: Well, I know
on weekends, if I'm out,
people come up to
me, and they want
to know about UFOs
and ghosts and stuff.
KEPANO: That's on George time.
>>NOORY: And you've done
that Monday through Friday.
You want to just
chill, but you also
understand where
they're coming from.
So I give them the time of day.
Do you remember the movie
"Ghost" with Whoopi Goldberg?
>>KEPANO: I love that movie.
>>NOORY: She never
got any sleep--
>>KEPANO: That's
what it feels like.
>>NOORY: --because spirits
would jump into her
and bother her all the time.
Does that happen to you
in a clairvoyant way?
>>KEPANO: It has.
So I didn't get my first
channel of spirit consciousness
actually until I was an adult.
And it came in because I
was just not paying attention.
I was open.
I was vulnerable at the time.
And I talking to a friend,
and her mother had passed on.
And all of a sudden, I felt
like Whoopi Goldberg, not as
fabulous, but I
felt my body shift.
And when I looked at my body,
my body did not-- in my mind,
it did not look like me.
It looked like her mother.
I could see the color of
the nail polish, the ring
that she had on, the smell of
the lotion that she was wearing.
>>NOORY: The
wrinkles in the hand.
>>KEPANO: Exactly.
So when I talk to my friend,
I said, something interesting
is happening right now.
Your mother wore
this nail polish.
She had a ring that
looked like this.
This is the smell of the
lotion that she would use.
And my friend was like, that's
exactly what she would do.
But it felt like my body
was hers in that moment.
>>NOORY: What about
spirit guides?
How do they play a role?
>>KEPANO: Yeah.
Well, I actually like to
differentiate the differences.
We have our guardians,
our spiritual team,
your grandfather, your
great grandmother.
We have them.
But then we have spirit guides.
When I look at spirit
guides, spirit guides
would be someone who was
previously in body, no longer
in body, who has done a lot
of developmental work, who
has had new contracts and new
lives, a lot of relearning.
And then in that
communication, in
that multidimensional
communication,
is able to come and say, now let
me help guide you through this.
I have found that
spirit guides are not
as loud as your spiritual team.
Your friend on the other side
and your mom on the other side,
they're quite loud for me.
>>NOORY: Are they reliable?
>>KEPANO: Well, it depends
on the spirit guide.
I would say yes, George,
because in development
on the other side, there is
a whole bunch of new learning
that they have to do in order
to be of assistance to you.
>>NOORY: How do you know
you're not getting tricked?
>>KEPANO: Yeah, well, and
again, that's why we really
want to make sure that we
remain neutral because it
can feel like, well, couldn't
I be tricked by something else?
Well, our mind
will absolutely be
tricked if we haven't
substantiated a really strong
sense of how we communicate.
And that takes exercise.
That takes development,
and it takes time.
And the awesome thing,
George, is that we
have the time to do that.
>>NOORY: Well, you sure do.
Now, what are some
of the best ways
to get in touch with
your own spirits?
>>KEPANO: So it
depends on the person.
I have found that
clairvoyance for them,
we channel into the mind's eye.
But I might be a
clairaudient-dominant
individual.
I will listen to a very
specific kind of music.
If you are a
touch-related individual,
I will create exercises that
are about my physical way
that I touch.
And we try to channel
spirit communication
through what is
natural to your body
or natural to your frequency.
>>NOORY: We've got another
magical clip of you, Kimo,
inviting people to become
advanced intuitives.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- My goal is to teach you
how to do what I'm doing
but to do it in your way.
You're not going to
do it in Kimo's way
because I am who I am.
But what I would love
to do is to teach you
how to understand the things
that I have learned about either
through my own spiritual
teachings and practices
but also the things that
I have spent the time
to get to know,
all of my teachings
that I've been able to
acquire from working
with neuroscientists and
surgeons and doctors.
I want to help you understand
what I've learned along the path
so that way, you can expand
your own educational process
within that.
You might already be a medium.
You might already be a psychic.
You might already
be an intuitive.
You might be a shaman
or a kumu or a kahuna
or a curandera or a brujo.
You might already be
a medicine person.
And what I want you
to do is to challenge
your paradigm of thinking
to say, how can I
take this information that this
aboriginal high seer is sharing,
all the scholarly information
that I've been able to learn,
how can you take it
and then synthesize it
within your own practice?
I encourage you to
organically change everything
that you need to.
You can take the
information that I bring in
and say, now how can I adopt
that into my own practice?
I think that I might make a
few adjustments along the way.
Be a holistic alchemist.
See what works.
See what doesn't work.
See what you would
like to do differently.
like to do more of.
Let it stimulate new learning.
Why am I asking you to do that?
Because that's what I did.
And I took years and
years to do this.
So what you are
seeing is the product
of the fruits of
my labor, and I'm
trying to share that with you.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Very poignant.
Tell me the significance
of the beaded necklace.
>>KEPANO: Well, so right now,
I'm wearing pikake 'iliahi.
So I have this sandalwood.
Hawaiians call
'iliahi sandalwood.
Remind me to stay grounded.
And I'm wearing pikake
from the pikake,
which is the Chinese jasmine.
I wear it over my heart to
remind myself where I come from.
>>NOORY: When you work with
your clients, what do they want?
>>KEPANO: Well,
most of my clients
that come to work with me
are clients that are looking
for development or for healing.
I have a lot of clients.
When I first opened
my practice, I said,
I want to do spirit work.
And my response is, let's
do a little bit of that
because you can go to spend time
with the medium to go do that.
We can do spirit work but only
if spirit is coming through
to be of assistance.
And I have found that
when you communicate
to your spiritual guides, your
spirit team, or maybe guides
on the other side, if you
just ask for assistance,
sometimes your spiritual
members or your spirit team
will show me, well, take a look
at this part of their body.
Ask them about this.
Their bone is doing this.
They haven't been diagnosed,
but the bone is doing this.
Ask them to go to a doctor.
That happens all the time.
>>NOORY: Are they
ever a nuisance?
>>KEPANO: When I was young, yes.
I remember in high school even.
I would go to spend the
night at a friend's house.
And he lived in a house that had
elderly care on the first floor.
And when I would
go there, there had
been a lot of
elderly individuals
because it was a hospice
house that had passed on.
And I had a hard time sleeping
over at my friend's house.
>>NOORY: They died
in that house.
>>KEPANO: Yeah, yeah, because
that was a hospice house.
And there were so
many times where
I would see things at the
foot of the bed and a person.
I could describe what
they looked like,
what they were wearing.
And it was hard for me.
And now I was young at the time.
I hadn't yet learned
how to be able to say,
but I choose to see you
in a very specific way.
Right now, you are
coming through,
and I'm a little afraid.
And you're showing
me a version of you
that is going to scare
me because I still have
to work through my own fear.
That was my lesson at that time.
>>NOORY: It's amazing.
When you work with people,
what don't they want to know?
>>KEPANO: That's
a good question.
I have found that there are
many clairvoyants, naturally
clairvoyant individuals
who say, please
do not tell me about the
scary thing that I saw.
Please do not tell me
that that thing that I
saw when I was younger or the
thing that I saw in the mirror
was real.
And my response to them is that
through the educational process,
not only was it real, but it
was real for you in that moment.
And you can change what you
were experiencing in that moment
because again, spirit,
just like all energy,
is designed to be
a reflector for us.
What was I supposed to see?
How can I learn from
that in that moment?
>>NOORY: What's the difference
between an intuitive
and an advanced intuitive?
>>KEPANO: Well, because
we are all intuitive,
we all have access to that.
I would call an
advanced intuitive
the person who spent the time,
the development, and consistency
and working with multiple
practitioners, not just one,
not just one institution
of psychic abilities,
not just one individual
that you found
on Google, multiple people.
So that way, we
can really create
a strong academic response to a
whole bunch of different ideas
and then again, make
an organic assessment.
Take a little bit
of this thought
and a little bit
of that thought.
What works for me?
>>NOORY: We've got a
clip of you describing
how to work with spirit
guides in relationship
to the clients and their needs.
Here we are.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- We have been
learning how to work
with all of these
different guides,
all of these different guides,
the guide of compassion,
guide of physical health, guide
of understanding, guide of love.
But when it's time for you
to work with the guides,
we have to understand,
but how am I
going to work with that guide?
And which is the guide that's
trying to communicate with me?
One of the things
that I would utilize
when I was first in
practice, when I was younger,
I would silent my mind.
And I have all of my guides
that I know what they do.
I have a guide of love.
I have a guide of family.
I have a guide of architecture,
of all these different guides
that do all these different
things for a very, very specific
for me.
So when I would tune into
someone, I would silent my mind.
And I would watch
where my guides move
in the room like a chess board.
And I would pay attention to
where in proximity that guide
would be in relation to me.
So for example, if my guide
of love moved close to me,
then I would know, when I open
my eyes and I turned on my Zoom
and I went into
session with someone,
what they were going to be
struggling with is information
that was going to be in the
connection of love or heartbreak
or wanting more foundation.
So I already had a precursor of
how to prep myself energetically
to be in that space for them.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Have you ever had a
reading that you didn't like?
>>KEPANO: Well, there
have been readings
that have been scary for me.
But I view that all intelligence
is good intelligence, George,
even the things
that are scary, even
the things that I
get confused by.
And I strive to learn about
why that happens because again,
sometimes you will have
spirit consciousness come in.
And that client
is talking about,
yeah, my dad crossed over,
but he was a really nasty man.
He was really, really scary.
And sometimes spirit will
show themselves to me
like that in the version
of how they saw them.
And what does that tell me?
It tells me that the client
still has some trauma work
to do based on that, but
that's not necessarily
how I see them immediately.
Immediately, I see
them all in light.
I see them all in apology and
in love and in a strong sense
of coherence.
But if the client sees
them in that form,
then that tells me
how much work we
have to do with the client
in their own trauma release.
>>NOORY: Do you see death?
>>KEPANO: Well, death
is one of those things
that I have refused
to do because I
know that I can see
very, very clearly
in foresight my entire life.
>>NOORY: Well, don't you
think you have an obligation
to tell somebody something?
>>KEPANO: That's a
great question, George.
I have lots of people will say,
I know you don't do death dates,
but we're trying
to figure this out.
And I just feel like it's
not my place to do that.
And when I see death
dates happen, they happen.
But I just don't think
that it's appropriate
because if I put more weight
into the death date, once again,
I am bringing more attention
to the resonance of that death
date.
And again, everything
can be changed.
Everything can be changed.
>>NOORY: What about a warning?
What if you see an
impending car accident?
>>KEPANO: That is what I do do.
I do give warnings.
>>NOORY: You will tell them.
So--
>>KEPANO: Absolutely.
But the way that I--
>>NOORY: To be careful
with something.
>>KEPANO: Yeah, exactly.
And in terms of on a day
where there was extra rain
and you're driving this,
and you're running late,
already to go to this certain
kind of an appointment,
that shows up in an imminent
probability in a timeline.
So what I want you
to do, when you
know that you have to go to this
appointment and all of a sudden,
it's raining, and you go
back into memory recall of,
oh, Kimo said that there is
a timeline of this happening.
I'm going to slow down.
I'm going to give myself
the time and the space
to get there on time.
I'm going to drive
in the slow lane.
I'm going to take my
time to get there.
So that way, we move
away from things
that can be very, very
harmful or hurtful to us.
>>NOORY: How does this
gift evolve for you?
>>KEPANO: For me, even though I
know that I can do these really
wonderful things--
and right, now, at
this place in my life,
I prefer to use it for
healing modalities.
I prefer to work with doctors.
I prefer to work
with scientists,
and I prefer to work
with neuroscientists
to really help substantiate the
things I know that I can do.
And right now, in my
life, I'm striving
to have that be one of
the predominant things
that I'm working
for, because I really
want the holistic community
to know that we can create
a nexus of academia
and intelligence
with our natural,
innate abilities.
There are so many psychics and
intuitives and readers out there
who focus predominantly on
the psychic aspect but not
the academic aspect.
And there can be
harmony and there
should be harmony
between those two worlds.
>>NOORY: How do
people find you, Kimo?
>>KEPANO: You can just
type in thelightseer.com,
and you'll find me.
You'll find my
sessions that I do.
You can find my seminars.
I do seminars
every single month.
I have a whole bunch
of different venues
that you can utilize
to communicate with me.
I have learning
modules that I release.
So there's no end to
how you can come have
a play date with me, George.
>>NOORY: Now,
what's your website?
>>KEPANO: My website
is thelightseer.com.
>>NOORY: Kimo, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>KEPANO: Mahalo Nui Loa
for having me here, George.
Thank you so much.
>>NOORY: Your
Hawaiian is perfect.
>>KEPANO: [LAUGHS] Mahalo.
>>NOORY: It is amazing
the clairvoyancy work
that he does, teaching
other people how
to foretell the future,
how to foretell the past.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]